Editor AI integration documentation (#2957)
telerik/blazor-docs: components/editor/ai-integration/overview.md

---
title: Overview
page_title: Editor AI Integration Overview
description: Overview of the AI integration options that the Editor for Blazor provides.
slug: editor-ai-integration-overview
tags: telerik,blazor,editor,ai,ai integration, aiprompt
published: True
position: 0
---

# AI Integration Overview

The Editor provides AI integration to enhance the user productivity and streamline workflows. This integration is available in two ways:

> * **AIPrompt Component**: An [AIPrompt component](slug:aiprompt-overview) that is rendered in a separate pane on the left side of the Editor.

Reviewer: In RTL it's probably on the other side.

```suggestion
* **AIPrompt Component**: An [AIPrompt component](slug:aiprompt-overview) that is rendered next to the Editor.
```

> * **Inline Prompt**: A lightweight, on-the-fly AI prompt rendered in a popup that is shown once the user selects text in the Editor.

Reviewer: "on-the-fly" doesn't carry enough meaning and the rest of the text should be clear enough.

```suggestion
* **Inline Prompt**: A lightweight AI prompt rendered in a popup that is shown once the user selects text in the Editor.
```

## AI Integration Capabilities

Both features are designed to improve the user experience by leveraging AI capabilities directly within the Editor environment. The built-in AI integration allows the user to type their prompt and get a response based on the text in the Editor. The users can also use a set of built-in commands:

> * Rewrite

Reviewer: ```suggestion

* Rewrite
```
